OK.
And so the section 4 parameters no parameters it just kind of explained.
It's really where you're going to put any type of specifics that you don't want your developer to make
assumptions about.
This is where I would say I would explain kind of the nitty gritty of how some specific parts of what
I'm writing about work now.
So I've written some questions to help you kind of clarify what exactly this means.
And these are the most common things that you would put in parameters.
Again this is an optional category.
If you have something that is very straightforward it's not very confusing to anyone reading it and
you have very good documentation as to you know when I say this function it's like this.
And you can link to it then you very very may well skip over parameters.
But most of you have a couple things that you probably want to specify and in this section it covers
you know quite a lot of common things you see in Web sites and mobile.
OK so an example would be does your application or your web site have any algorithms so algorithms.
What do I mean by that.
Now anytime you say the word search or say match that implies that you have an algorithm in this application
this lovely app we're matching people up remember.
So how does it match them up.
Well uses a questionnaire but how does the questionnaire or how does the system use that questionnaire
to match them.
Now what does it do does it just look for like a one to one basis does it look for exact matches.
Does it look for 50 percent match does it look for people that are opposites.
These are things that you need to specify and you don't need to build out the algorithm right here.
You don't need to say here's the programming system here's exactly how it's going to work.
Here's the you know the line of code that calculates all of it.
You just need to explain roughly how it works.
Focus on explaining the complexity of it or explaining it in a way that anyone who reads it can understand
if it's simple or complex.
Now similar to matching any time that you have a search engine that's another thing that you might need
to write a parameter around saying what I search what exactly does it look for what is the default search.
Does it look for keywords.
Does it look for exact matches a look for words that start like this.
Is it search my web site does it search another Web site.
These are all things that you should list out in parameters.
Now again parameters are just the details I like to think of it like a perimeter your kind of outlining
your application and you're defining the exact perimeter of what it covers and what it does not cover
and what exactly certain functions what they are where they are what they do.
Now again you don't need to go crazy with this action.
You don't need to do paragraphs and paragraphs Typically I only put in a couple parameters.
And really those refer back to any of the functions that we put previously that include logic.
So that's all I said.
Is there logic when displaying things things could be anything right.
When you open up Facebook and it has in it shows you information like your news feed it shows you photos
someone's post or shows you a status that someone's posted.
There is logic behind that.
Why did you see that photo and not a different photo.
Why did you get that status update as opposed to a different one.
Now you need to go back and look at your function list and try to think through your head.
Are there any areas in here where there's some type of background that I would need to outline in parameters
also in parameters it's helpful to list out things that are more specific like for instance I would
say 25 questions for the questionnaire questionnaires are 1 through 10.
That would be an appropriate place to put in parameters.
Just to remind them that these are set guidelines set rules.
This application has to follow if you have like a search engine or like in this case we have a matching
engine.
You need to say how many matches the person gets.
If you're a search engine how many results should it display.
So with lovely we are doing matching.
So we said earlier in matches you to four to five per day ok and parameters you need to say things like
what does 24 hours mean what time zone do we use for 24 hours.
Try to be as specific as possible what happens exactly after 24 hours is it quite literally refresh
them can you continue a conversation with someone after 24 hours.
You know how do they know that it's been refreshed.
What does it look like what happens if someone is viewing the application when that 24 hour deadline
is over.
Those are things that are worth putting into parameters to just make sure that these are the specifics
that I need to cover in order for this application to run correctly.
This is often the section that miss out on a lot and it's also probably one of the more daunting ones
if you're not familiar with building applications or you're not very like tech savvy but really it's
just it's quite simple.
Just look for any type of specifics in your function list or in your wireframe if you've made those.
OK so and I can we can go through our functions list and I can see if there's any parameters that I
might want to add and I'll use that as the example to help you kind of generate ideas of what you might
want to specify and what you might not want to do.
All right so has a splash page allows users to log in with Facebook.
Now you might want to list a parameter that there is only one log in type and that is Facebook.
That might be something that's worth pointing out.
These are very specific thing and parameters again we said three areas of questions total of 25 or 360
years of total of 25 questions.
That's something that you'd want to list in your parameters.
Same thing with ranges from 1 to 10 different parameters.
Obviously we'd want to talk a little bit about how exactly it matches them up in parameters we might
want to say things like since they have the option to change a profile photo.
Do we want to put a parameter on that.
For instance.
How big of a file can they upload.
Do we all do the upload massive files.
Does it need to be in some kind of an aspect ratio like what happens if they upload a big landscape
photograph.
How does that display in the application should we reject it.
What happens if they upload a file type that you don't want.
These are things that you can put in the parameters.
And honestly if you don't have a preference then you can leave it blank and your developer or your designer
or whoever ends up having to deal with this can make a decision.
And ideally if they're good at what they do they'll confer with you to make the decision.
Another thing you could put in parameters if since we have an option to create a 50 word bio we could
say things like parameter would be do not include any.
Do not allow them to include any links.
Do not allow them to go over 50 words.
Here's another example clicking the message button populates the text message in a pre-filled message.
So in this case we were building this application for I.R.S. we could specify whether or not we want
this to open up in a web browser or open up in their mail app or open up a secondary mail application.
You could specify that you could say we don't want it opening up in a certain way we don't want certain
things to populate.
This is where you kind of get into the specifics.
This entire section is very helpful for a developer.
But again it's very optional.
And then in parameters you can also talk about your administration features in your administration abilities
and go into more detail so see the total numbers of the system you need to be able to see how many signed
up today how many signed up in the last month.
Do you need to be able to drill down on anything else.
Those are kind of things that you would put in the parameters section.
OK.
So I just put these down so that you guys can review them.
This is basically what we talked about.
And one of the great things about writing out these sections again as you started to discover more complexity
and more things you didn't actually think about.
So here I just took a crack at explaining how the user answers will work.
I can.
I said Magic is based off the proximity of each user's answers.
If the user has an exact match on a question that should count as 10 points within one point eight points
within 2.6 points within three is for now I then said after the point at which you're four points away
then it actually works negatively against you all the way up until you know the worst case scenario
which is that you're 10 points away and that makes a huge negative difference and it actually outweighs
the other questions that you might have gotten correctly.
Now here's one part that actually kind of forgotten about how you need to specify in this case how exactly
the system chooses the matches.
So I just said well it matches them based off of whoever has the highest score.
Now there's obviously going to be ties right.
You can have a lot of perfect scores.
And in that case if they're tying Who do you display so then I said it's sort's by alphabetical order
and then every 24 hours it cycles and moves down the list.
At first you get great matches and then over time you get worse and worse matches.
That's obviously not a great idea for the long term.
I would want to change that because you don't want the app to slowly get worse and worse and worse.
What happens as you get new users.
Right.
What happens if they've seen 10 rounds of matches and then all of a sudden someone creates an account
in their perfect match.
They get shown next.
These are things that you'd want to specify that I specified that how the 24 hour rule works.
I say it's at midnight California time and then I just talked a little bit about things like should
they be able to contact users after they've been matched and anything we can think of around photographs.
So this obviously is not a complete batch of everything that I would put in parameters.
But it's a very good start.
So again this is an optional section.
I suggest you do it definitely helps you think about some of the questions don't ignore things like
your search algorithms don't ignore things like matching and the logic behind how things get displayed
how they work.
What happens when you input information and it gets spit back out to you.
Developers need to understand this because they're trying to understand the complexity of it but don't
think that this section is set in stone.
You can always edit this.
Just make sure that when you do edit it you're not making it significantly more complex.
That's the point of this is we're trying to capture as much complexity as we can but not necessarily
every single detail that you can always edit kind of on the fly.
All right I'll see in the next lecture.